How would you say there should be something to it?
There should be something to it.
So we said that should was would o
Or would must.
So what is to O, which we can use like must and it's related to debt?
Deber.
And would must or would o gives us the meaning should
Good.
There should be something to it.
Your first place your mind is gonna go is to choose between set and a star.
If neither fit.
Make that little check, oh is this exist?
Is this the B that means exist?
And then you know it's a bear.
So there should be, there should exist something to it
Good.
In order to eat.
There should be something in order to eat.
Good.
Debería haber algo para comer.
There should be something to it.
Very good.
Another commonplace that we use the mood tense in Spanish.
is when we say it is an adjective, ke, and then a verb, this verb is going to go into the mood tense.
You are noticing that ke has a lot to do with the subjunctive, that this ke introduces the mood tense in many cases.
So, for example, if I want to give you some advice and tell you it's terrible that you eat this, it is terrible that you eat this.
So let's speak informally
Es terrible que comas esto.
Good.
So it's the que, the combination of esterrible and ke which introduces this mood tense.
If you say it is terrible if you eat this, then you don't use the mood tense
So how would you say that?
It is terrible if you eat this, still speaking informally.
Good.
Es terrible si comes esto.
How would you say it is possible?
Es possible.
Good
How would you say it's possible that we go later?
What is later or more late?
Good.
And what is the root for the mood tense of go?
Boy ba becomes
Vaya.
Good.
So it is possible that we go later
Fuerte in Spanish means
strong but it's also used colloquially and maybe the closest translation that I can think of would be something like
I mean again it's very colloquial but you can say oh that's hardcore that's full on in Spanish you say a lot que fuerte que fuerte how heavy how hardcore how full on que fuerte
And we say that we can use que like how, que fuerte, que lindo, how nice, how beautiful, que bueno, how good.
You can say que increíble que or qué fuerte que.
So whilst we have two quees there in Spanish, this is just how incredible that
How hardcore that?
And of course we would carry on into the mood tense.
So how strong, how heavy that he is here?
How would you say that?
Que fuerte que stay aquí.
Good.
Que fuerte que este aquí
In English we achieve a similar feeling to what we get with the Spanish subjunctive, sometimes with words like should or might.
Here, for example, in English we could say how incredible that he should come.
Here we don't mean should like in its literal meaning like deberia.
No?
Here in English we are using should to give this kind of mood tense feeling.
How incredible that he should come.
Está bien, está bien means it's okay.
The literal translation of bien is well and to be well is a state.
So it goes with a star, a stabien, but it can also be used like it's okay.
So for example, you could say, you know, it's okay that you ask, but I don't have to apply
So to ask is preguntar and to reply or to respond is responder.
So we will say it's okay that you ask.
But it's not necessary that I respond.
I don't need to respond.
It's not necessary that I respond.
So the first bit, it's okay that you ask.
And we're speaking informally.
And to ask was preguntar.
Good.
So it's like, okay, you can ask as much as you like.
Ah, so this is the feeling we get here with the mood tense.
Or in English we might use might here to get this kind of mood tense feeling.
It's okay that you might ask, but
Pero it's not necessary that I respond.
I don't need to respond.
It's not necessary that I respond.
There's a few ways we can say this.
No es necesito.
Necesito is the verb.
Necesidad is necesito.
So necesary, how is vocabulary in Spanish?
Uh wait necessario.
Good.
So it's not necessary that I respond.
No es necessario y respond.
Very good.
And there we have the mood tense after es necessario or no es necessario que
So we have it is adjective ke and then the verb and that verb with the mood tense.
We also could have said no hace falta que responda, it doesn't make lack
This common expression we said we will hear around, hacer falta, no hacer falta que responda
How would you say it is important that we find it soon?
It's important that we find it soon.
Es importante que lo encontremos pronto.
Good.